# DATA (Implied_Scenarios)

In this folder the data used for our results is presented. Each model studied has its own subfolder, and each one of those subfolders are organized as follows:

```
[System Name]/
  ├ Model/
  │  ├ [System Name]_ArchitectureModel.lts
  │  ├ [System Name]_ConstrainedModel.lts
  │  ├ [System Name].lts
  │  ├ [System Name].txt
  │  └ [System Name].xml
  │
  ├ Results/
  │  ├ CBs_for_[System Name]_traces.txt
  │  ├ dendro_for_lev_[System Name]_traces.pdf
  │  ├ dendro_for_sw_[System Name]_traces.pdf
  │  ├ lev_for_[System Name]_traces.csv
  │  ├ lev_for_[System Name]_traces.txt
  │  ├ sw_for_[System Name]_traces.csv
  │  ├ sw_for_[System Name]_traces.txt
  │  └ tests_for_[System Name]_traces.txt
  │
  ├ [System Name]_ref.bib
  └ [System Name]_traces.txt
```

Model and Results are both subfolders, while ref.bib and traces.txt are both single files.

**_\[System Name\]\_ref.bib_** is a reference to a work that used that better explains the system, if a better explanation of its functionality is needed.

**_\[System Name\]\_traces.txt_** is a file that contains detected implied scenarios of that system. Even though in our works we used different number of ISs, only the file with most ISs have been provided (up to 500). However, if a different number of ISs is desired, all required files (mscplugin and model specification) have been provided.


## Model Folder

Inside _Model_, 3 files with the same model specification will be present:

  * \[System Name\].lts
  * \[System Name\].txt
  * \[System Name\].xml

The **_lts_** model, is the behaviour model generated by the mscplugin, with the addition of constraint(s) that remove all implied scenarios.

The **_txt_** model, is a simplified view of the MSC specification. It can used as input to the _model_parser.py_ script (inside [code folder](../code/)) to generate a xml accepted by the mscplugin. Its syntax is well explained in the _example.txt_ that's provided alongside the script in the code folder.

Finally, **_xml_** model is simply a better (visually) formatted version of the system specification in LTSA. It's completely equivalent to the generated output by the model_parser script, the bMSCs have simply been rearranged to look better visually in the presented hMSC. The information itself is the same.

Besides those 3 files, there are two other files: **_\[System Name\]\_ArchitectureModel.lts_** and **_\[System Name\]\_ConstrainedModel.lts_**. These files are simply the composition of the different components specified in the **_lts_** file.

_Architecture_ file has only the composition of the components and nothing else, that is, it follows the model's specification. _Constrained_ composes that result with the constraint(s) that resolve all ISs. These files can be used alongside the _tests_ file inside the Results folder as input for the _check_scenarios.py_ script (inside [code folder](../code/)). This allows us to check if ISs were removed with the constraints added.

## Results Folder

All 8 files inside _Results_ can be generated using the _traces_ file as input for _analyze.py_ script. All these files are explained in the [_analyze.py_ script explanation](../code#analyzepy). Only three files (_dendro\_lev_, _dendro\_sw_, and _tests_) are different from the generated ones, and those differences are explained below.

###### dendro\_for\_lev\_[System Name]\_traces.pdf
  The only difference between this file and the one generated by the script is that this provided one is anotated in the first page, showing which CBs are resolved by which constraints.

###### dendro\_for\_sw\_[System Name]\_traces.pdf
  The only difference between this file and the one generated by the script is that this provided one is anotated in the first page, showing which CBs are resolved by which constraints.

###### tests\_for\_[System Name]\_traces.txt
  The only difference between this file and the one generated is that this also includes the positive scenarios. Positive scenarios can be generated by the [_model\_parser.py_ script](../code#model_parserpy), as explained inside the [code folder](../code/).
